---
title: "Bottlenecks of Agricultural IoT"
description: "The rise, development, and application of anything has a gradual process, and time is the best solution."
category: "startup"
tags:
  - "innovation"
pubDate: 2024-11-24
authors:
  - default
heroImage: "https://cos.zbz.ai/images/202310181548982.avif"
heroImageAlt: "RealRip-Bottlenecks of Agricultural IoT"
heroImageWidth: 1960
heroImageHeight: 1102
draft: false
featured: false
locale: en
---

In recent years, IoT, sensors, and modern agriculture have become increasingly popular.

Especially in facility agriculture, IoT has gradually become a standard feature, collecting a lot of data such as temperature and humidity.

But for users like farmers, data is dead, and data lying on a hard drive is useless.

How to apply this data to help agricultural entities make more scientific decisions, take agricultural measures, reduce the use of pesticides and fertilizers, and improve crop yield and quality is the most important and meaningful thing.

## Bottlenecks of IoT

First, agricultural IoT is in its infancy, prioritizing hardware over software.

Second, there is not enough data yet, patterns cannot be discovered, and it cannot serve as a basis for decision-making.

Third, generally speaking, IoT is still driven by government subsidies. Local governments are doing image projects, there are few real users, and most are subsidy scammers.

Fourth, those who build IoT with confidence out of their own pockets find that the reality is harsh when actually applying it, mainly because sensors are inaccurate, especially soil sensors.

Fifth, environmental parameters have not been combined with plant growth parameters.

## Solutions

The rise, development, and application of anything has a gradual process, and time is the best solution.

The state should have a plan to organize a systematic project for field data census, by deploying specific probes over a large area, collecting data, and establishing forecasts for soil moisture distribution, nutrient distribution, and pests and diseases.

Manufacturers should leverage their own advantages, focusing on specific points to cover the area. Leverage professional advantages and create distinctive features in niche fields.
