---
title: "The Mysterious Superstar Aamir Khan"
description: "This is the kind of star we should truly admire"
category: "life"
tags:
  - "media"
pubDate: 2025-04-07
authors:
  - default
heroImage: "https://cos.zbz.ai/images/202309131332742.avif"
heroImageAlt: "DiMi - 'Secret Superstar' - Aamir Khan Film"
heroImageWidth: 1960
heroImageHeight: 1102
draft: false
featured: false
locale: en
---

**"Secret Superstar"** is the third Aamir Khan film I've seen. The first was **"3 Idiots"**—that was when I first learned that Bollywood is India’s Hollywood, producing countless legendary films. Back then, I didn’t think much of Aamir Khan. He just seemed like a passionate young man, fresh out of college. It wasn’t until I watched **"Dangal"** that I began to really pay attention to him. That’s when I realized just how impressive he is—a man who single-handedly upholds the Indian film industry. And after watching **"Secret Superstar"**, I discovered that Aamir Khan could also be flamboyantly mischievous, especially that bull-like roar of his—“Aha!”—which was delightfully cheeky to the core.

A true yoga instructor doesn't expect you to master every pose on the first try. It's enough to do your best. If you grow to love yoga, you’ll eventually master all the poses. Aamir Khan’s movies are just like that—there are no perfect characters, not even the leads. The protagonist's journey is like practicing yoga: filled with twists, setbacks, and perseverance—until they become a real hero. That way, what the audience sees is a vivid, living person—often a reflection of themselves. How could anyone not be drawn in?

India’s unique blend of urban and rural culture gives Aamir Khan immense creative freedom in setting his scenes. Sometimes it's a remote village with rustic charm, other times it’s a posh office in metropolitan Mumbai. The sharp contrast between city and countryside paints a vivid picture of Indian society.

Sometimes, he even pokes gentle fun at Indian gods. Like the “Snake God” in _3 Idiots_ who guarantees exam success, or the religious taboo of chicken in _Dangal_, or the nameless god in _Secret Superstar_. It’s remarkable that in a country so religious, no one has come out to boycott Aamir Khan or his films. India truly is a tolerant place.

He is hailed as a national treasure in India—not just because he can rapidly gain and lose weight for his roles, shifting from boyish heartthrob to greasy uncle—but because he continuously uses his influence to introduce India to the world, and to lay bare its social issues.

He tells just one story at a time—slowly, gently, sincerely. You know he’s playing on your emotions, using humor to convey deeper truths, but you still want to watch until the very end.

Such an actor deserves the respect of everyone around the world. **Aamir Khan is a true SUPERSTAR.**
