---
"title": "Enlightenment"
"description": "The idea of ​​equality of all beings brings light to all mankind."
"category": "life"
"tags":
  - "media"
"pubDate": "2019-10-27"
"heroImage": "https://cos.zbz.ai/images/202310181512038.avif"
"heroImageAlt": "RealRip-Enlightenment"
heroImageWidth: 1960
heroImageHeight: 1102
authors:
  - default
"draft": false
"featured": false
locale: "en"
---

"Apocalypse" directed by Mel Gibson uses a concise story to tell the story of a small jungle tribesman named Tiger Claw who changed his life against the odds and protected his wife and children at the end of the 16th century.

Originally, Tiger Claw's tribe lived a peaceful jungle life, but the Mayan nobles living in the city-state captured the jungle tribes as slaves, sacrifices and prostitutes.

It was precisely with countless slaves like Tiger Claw that the Maya was able to establish a prosperous city-state for thousands of years in the tropical jungles of South America and establish its own culture, language and symbols.But all of these are primitive savages based on bloody slavery, not civilization.

In the absence of accurate calculations, sophisticated tools, and enough food, primitive city-states could only organize large-scale labor by relying on slavery. Countless slaves spent their blood and lives to polish a stone slab with precise scales and exquisite carvings.

Not only was the Mayan civilization uncivilized, the Egyptian civilization and the Liangzhu civilization were also civilizations based on bloody slavery. There was no civilization at all. They were obviously cannibalistic societies.

The idea of ​​equality of all beings brings light to all mankind.
