---
"title": "Ten years of Yunqi"
"description": "This year marks the 20th anniversary of the founding of Alibaba, the\
  \ 10th year of the Yunqi Conference, and the first Yunqi Conference without Mr.\
  \ Ma."
"category": "build"
"tags":
  - "innovation"
"pubDate": "2019-10-07"
"heroImage": "https://cos.zbz.ai/images/202310181512042.avif"
"heroImageAlt": "RealRip-Ten years of Yunqi"
heroImageWidth: 1960
heroImageHeight: 1102
authors:
  - default
"draft": false
"featured": false
locale: "en"
---

On September 25, 2019, the annual Alibaba Cloud Computing Conference was held as scheduled at the Hangzhou Computing Conference.This year marks the 20th anniversary of the founding of Alibaba, the 10th year of the Yunqi Conference, and the first Yunqi Conference without Mr. Ma.Although Mr. Ma did not come, Ali’s appeal was still there. In addition to programmers, there were also a large number of government inspection groups, with an audience of 60,000.

The theme of the 2018 Yunqi Conference is "Data Drives China". This year, in line with the industry development trend, the artificial intelligence theme is added as "Data·Intelligence Era".The theme forums and exhibition halls are closely related to the themes of "digital industrialization" and "industrial digitalization". The forum focuses on underlying technologies and industry applications, while exhibitors are mainly companies that provide middle-end and bottom-level architecture and companies that provide smart water services, smart travel, smart homes, and smart manufacturing solutions.Unlike last year, when new retail companies appeared together and Yunqi Conference had to open two temporary exhibition halls to meet the needs of exhibitors, this year's exhibitors are more carefully selected to focus on displaying Alibaba's ecology.In particular, the Feitian exhibition hall is full of various industry solution providers that provide digital implementation solutions. In the wave of industrial digitalization, Alibaba provides more cloud infrastructure, middle-end systems, and demonstration cases.Large-scale implementation services rely on partners to implement them.

Zhejiang Governor Yuan Jiajun and Hangzhou Municipal Party Committee Secretary Zhou Jiangyong both attended the meeting and delivered keynote speeches. Alibaba, the city of Hangzhou, and Zhejiang Province are cooperating more and more closely.Zhejiang Province positions "digital economy" as its "No. 1 project", Hangzhou City wants to build the "No. 1 Digital Economy City", and Alibaba wants to expand its To G business. Each side takes what it needs. Zhejiang Province and Hangzhou City rely on Alibaba's technology to successfully lead the country in the field of digital economy. Alibaba has formed a competitive advantage in the fields of digital government affairs and smart cities by building a "most-once" digital government affairs for Zhejiang Province and the "city brain" of Hangzhou City.Governments at all levels and state-owned enterprises have obtained business. The railway 12306 ticket purchase system, Xueqiangguo, and the Shanghai Stock Exchange Science and Technology Innovation Board big data monitoring system have become benchmarks for their competition in To G business.

At the main forum, Alibaba’s new chairman and CEO Zhang Yong (Xiaoyaozi) gave a speech on digital economic trends, focusing more on the e-commerce field he is familiar with.Alibaba CTO Zhang Jianfeng gave a speech on building digital economic infrastructure and released the Hanguang 800 chip. This was also the first answer sheet submitted by Alibaba one year after establishing Pingtouge Semiconductor Company. Perhaps only the company itself knows the ups and downs of making chips.

Jack Ma founded Alibaba, and Wang Jian founded Alibaba Cloud. Now the two core businesses have been handed over to Zhang Yong and Zhang Jianfeng respectively.If Jack Ma and Wang Jian are both wild and unrestrained, relying on imagination and personal charm to start their careers, Zhang Yong and Zhang Jianfeng are more like mature and stable defenders of the country.As a company founded 20 years ago, Alibaba may no longer lead the trend in innovation, but it will maintain corporate development through external investment.After all, the B2B cash cow is still full of vitality, and Alibaba will still dig deep into the moat in the B2B business in the future.

Alibaba's circle of friends is getting stronger and stronger, and it has invited three academicians. Among them, Academician Xue Qikun gave a popular science report on the digital future driven by quantum technology, which was profound and easy to understand.In addition, 2011 Nobel Prize winner Thomas Sargent gave a speech on the development of the global digital economy. He believed that the digital economy is still an "old" thing and a "new" thing, replacing old mathematical statistics and handwritten records with powerful and cheap computers and huge data sets.
