---
"title": "Don't worship clowns, let alone trample on ideals"
"description": "Don’t trample on other people’s ideals and don’t ignore marginalized\
  \ groups"
"category": "life"
"tags":
  - "media"
"pubDate": "2019-12-18"
"heroImage": "https://cos.zbz.ai/images/202309131332738.avif"
"heroImageAlt": "RealRip-Don't worship clowns, let alone trample on ideals"
heroImageWidth: 1960
heroImageHeight: 1102
authors:
  - default
"draft": false
"featured": false
locale: "en"
---

"Joker" was released as scheduled, and many North American audiences wore clown masks and toy guns to watch the movie. The police had to ask the theater to increase the security level to prevent a recurrence of the Aurora shooting incident.

It was a hit at the box office. Firstly, it has a large number of DC fans. Secondly, it is a professional writer-director-actor. Thirdly, it has aroused social resonance. Especially the ending similar to "V for Vendetta" inspired people's dystopian resonance. Even US President Trump couldn't help but praise "Joker" after watching it.

This character-study film intercepts the story of the middle-aged clown Arthur Fleck before and after his blackening to find the mystery of the origin of the clown's murderous nature.The clown discovers that his beloved mother, trusted friends, psychiatrists he relies on, public figures on TV, and strangers on the subway all use him as an object of ridicule, or as a stepping stone to work or survival, and then completely darken.And after shooting three Wayne Enterprises employees, he suddenly found the pleasure of being himself. After killing the host on live TV, he awakened more marginalized people to start resisting.

It seems that the solidified social class collapsed instantly...

The clown reminds us not to trample on other people's ideals.

The clown is a wake-up call to society not to ignore marginalized groups.
