---
"title": "Battle of Midway"
"description": "As a commercial film, \"The Battle of Midway\" was not considered\
  \ a success."
"category": "life"
"tags":
  - "media"
"pubDate": "2019-12-18"
"heroImage": "https://cos.zbz.ai/images/202309131332737.avif"
"heroImageAlt": "RealRip-Battle of Midway"
heroImageWidth: 1960
heroImageHeight: 1102
authors:
  - default
"draft": false
"featured": false
locale: "en"
---

War movies cost a lot of money, and the number of moviegoers is small. There are fewer and fewer people making war movies, and there are even fewer large-scale battle themes."The Battle of Midway" directed by Roland Emmerich, the director of "Ten Thousand Years Before History" and "2012", restores this classic battle from the perspective of naval officers from both sides of the war between Japan and the United States. It can be regarded as a rare large-scale World War II themed movie in recent years. Its production level is comparable to Russia's "T-34 Tank" and "Fury".

The director avoids talking about justice and evil, and uses faith, family, care, and vision to show why everyone fights from an individual perspective.

The Japanese army has always regarded the US military as the biggest potential threat, but the US military and Washington had illusions. They woke up after the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. However, at this time, the US naval combat power was no longer on the same order of magnitude as Japan.

The Japanese Navy had the largest aircraft carrier at the time, the most advanced carrier-based aircraft, and the most fearless naval officers.The U.S. military's ability to defeat more with less relies on the courage, professionalism and hard work of General Nimitz, intelligence officer Layton, pilot Best and others.

The Battle of Midway was far more brutal and exciting than the movie. As a commercial film, "The Battle of Midway" was not considered a success.
