---
title: "Hiking Ruyi Peak"
description: "After reaching the summit, follow the signs along the ridge road towards Goutou Mountain and Ruyi Peak. Although the mountain road has ups and downs, it is very easy to walk. The scenery changes with every step, and climbing high to enjoy the view makes one feel refreshed and vigorous. There is a section of the road that few people walk, and shrubs and bamboo crowd both sides of the mountain road, so watch out for wasps and mosquito bites. Since it is summer, it is also recommended to wear long pants and long sleeves when climbing the mountain to avoid exposing skin."
category: "life"
tags:
  - "roam"
pubDate: 2020-08-10
heroImage: https://cos.realrip.com/images/202310181512025.avif
heroImageAlt: "RealRip-"
heroImageWidth: 1960
heroImageHeight: 1102
authors:
  - default
draft: false
featured: false
locale: en
---

Text

To the west of Hangzhou, independent of the mountains surrounding West Lake, there is another patch of mountain forest. Hangzhou City spent three years connecting the entire mountains together with a 108-kilometer walkway, forming the Xishan National Forest Park. Ruyi Peak, at an altitude of 536 meters, is the highest peak in the group. Among them, there is a 20-kilometer circular walking trail, which is very suitable for self-driving hiking.

The starting point for climbing can be chosen at Shuangling Village or Lingshan Scenic Town. It is recommended to choose Lingshan Scenic Town, as the slope from here is gentler, and you can slowly ascend via the ridge walkway.

After reaching the summit, follow the signs along the ridge road towards Goutou Mountain and Ruyi Peak. Although the mountain road has ups and downs, it is very easy to walk. The scenery changes with every step, and climbing high to enjoy the view makes one feel refreshed and vigorous. There is a section of the road that few people walk, and shrubs and bamboo crowd both sides of the mountain road, so watch out for wasps and mosquito bites. It is best to wear long pants and long sleeves to avoid exposing skin.

After passing Goutou Mountain, the mountain road begins to steepen, and there are guardrails on both sides. Leaning on the railing, you can see the rolling mountains at a glance. In the future, there is only one road leading to Ruyi Peak, so there is no need to worry about getting lost. Continue walking to Ruyi Pavilion to rest for a while, and then you can launch a charge on Ruyi Peak. Apart from a dilapidated pavilion, there are no other artificial traces on Ruyi Peak. After coming down from Ruyi Peak, there are two roads to go down the mountain, one on the left of the rock steps, and the other near the Ruyi Pavilion you just passed. Just follow the signs to go down the mountain. Both roads can lead to Shuangling Village at the foot of the mountain.

The mountain road here is well built. It takes about 1 hour to get down to the ground. Follow the small path between the valleys to reach Shuangling Village, where you can replenish water and energy. Follow the Lingshan Line and turn to Lingshan Middle Road to return to the scenic town. This road passes through the village, and you can feel the thriving and well-off rural life of the new Zhejiang countryside along the way.

Although the entire route is 20 kilometers long, you only need to bring supplies for the 16 kilometers on the mountain. The last 4 kilometers are country roads with many shops around, and the prices are very affordable. You can buy as you go to reduce the burden.
