---
title: "Centered on Wuyun Mountain"
description: "This route is centered on Wuyun Mountain, with moderate length, steep and gentle slopes, cultural and natural scenery, suitable for a one-day challenge"
category: "life"
tags:
  - "roam"
pubDate: 2020-11-08
heroImage: https://cos.realrip.com/images/202310181512036.avif
heroImageAlt: "ZBZ-"
heroImageWidth: 1960
heroImageHeight: 1102
authors:
  - default
draft: false
featured: false
locale: en
---

Open up a new route in the mountains of West Lake, Hangzhou. This route is centered on Wuyun Mountain, with moderate length, steep and gentle slopes, cultural and natural scenery, suitable for a one-day challenge.

**Route Overview**

The total length is 27 kilometers, taking 6 hours and 40 minutes, requiring 40,000 steps.

Yunqi Bamboo Path Entrance → Douyun Pavilion → Wuyun Mountain → Jiuxi → Xiaokangwu → Wengjiashan → Shili Langdang Entrance → Sanfencha → Wuyun Mountain → Yunqi Bamboo Path.

**Attractions on the Way**

Yunqi Bamboo Path, Zhenji Temple Ruins, Jiuxi Yanshu, Yanxia Three Caves, Tea Museum, Longjing Wencha, Shili Langdang.

**Challenge Sections**

From Yunqi up to Wuyun Mountain, the whole way is steps on the trail. People who don't climb mountains often may find it overwhelming and can stop and go.

From Shili Langdang to Sanfencha, the whole journey is through tea gardens. If the sun is scorching, it will be quite sunny, so pay attention to heatstroke prevention.

**Supply**

There are small shops in temples and villages along the way, so there is no need to carry too much drinking water and dry food.

**Safety**

Need to go up and down the mountain many times, mainly to protect the knees.

**Tips**

Climbing from the gate of Yunqi Bamboo Path will charge an 8 yuan ticket. You can change to start from Jiuxi and go up Wuyun Mountain.

**Hiking Related**
