---
title: "A Few Impressions of Changsha"
description: "Getting a bargain"
category: "life"
pubDate: 2020-06-10
heroImage: https://cos.realrip.com/images/202310181512029.avif
heroImageAlt: "ZBZ-"
heroImageWidth: 1960
heroImageHeight: 1102
authors:
  - default
draft: false
featured: false
locale: en
---

I arrived at Huanghua Airport at 8 am. I planned to go straight to Hunan Museum, but I saw the maglev in the arrival hall, so I temporarily decided to take the maglev to the high-speed railway station and then transfer to the subway to the museum.

Although the Shanghai Maglev is old, it has a speed display. The Changsha Maglev seems to have been built later than Shanghai's, but there is no speed prompt in the carriage, and the speed did not soar, making it no different from the subway. However, the price is only 1/2 of Shanghai's.

There is a long red education corridor and a military court on Yingbin Road, and then there is the Martyrs Park. Across the park is the museum. Unfortunately, I was careless and did not make an appointment a day in advance, so I couldn't enter the museum. I returned to the Martyrs Park resentfully, walked around the memorial tower three times, and watched a group of aunties dancing.

At dinner, I told my friend that it was hard to see young people on the subway and on the road, and there were not many mid-to-high-end cars on the road. I felt that Changsha lacked vitality. My friend said that the main reason was that housing prices in Changsha had not risen for 10 years. I think so too. If others rise and you don't, the property investment attribute is gone, and no one will come to live.
