---
title: "Reading Classics is Better than Chasing Big Shots' Oral Accounts"
description: "As long as the boss puts forward an idea, employees can always prove that it is a brilliant idea. Therefore, it is best for the boss to ask more questions, propose fewer plans, and concentrate on making good decisions."
category: "startup"
tags:
  - "innovation"
pubDate: 2021-04-11
heroImage: "https://cos.zbz.ai/images/202310081729442.avif"
heroImageAlt: "RealRip-"
heroImageWidth: 1960
heroImageHeight: 1102
authors:
  - default
draft: false
featured: false
locale: "en"
---

**Weekly Reflections**

Business tycoons often participate in industry forums to share their entrepreneurial experiences and management ideas. After Principal Ma's incident in Shanghai, more and more entrepreneurs have become cautious and are no longer keen on sharing various views and opinions. We can only look back at various videos circulating on the Internet and some classic books. After comparison, we can basically confirm that the sharp views in the mouths of the big shots are just old wine in new bottles, retelling some classic theories in their own language system.

After Teacher Ma's failure, there was a lot of scolding on the Internet, listing various faults of Teacher Ma and Alibaba. Of course, Alibaba at this stage is indeed too big to fail. But for entrepreneurs, what we want to learn is Alibaba ten years ago, not Alibaba now.

Speaking of learning from large enterprises, among Internet companies, Tencent should be the most worthy of learning.

I don't remember in which book I saw a sentence: As long as the boss puts forward an idea, employees can always prove that it is a brilliant idea. Therefore, it is best for the boss to ask more questions, propose fewer plans, and concentrate on making good decisions.

**Weekly Events**

Wang Xing commented on Huawei's car manufacturing: Tesla has finally met an opponent with equal technical strength and ability to bluff.

**Industry Trends**

The National Development and Reform Commission publicly solicited opinions on the "Measures for the Classification of Venture Capital Subjects (Draft for Comment)". The draft proposes that the investment funds of venture capital enterprises are mainly used for the operation, scientific and technological research and development, and business expansion of the invested enterprises, and shall not be used to acquire equity held by persons directly related to the source of investment funds. It shall not invest in non-standardized creditor's rights assets, derivative assets and other businesses. It shall not directly or indirectly engage in lending activities, including indirectly engaging in lending and financing businesses through setting up unconditional rigid repurchase arrangements such as "equity in name but debt in reality". It shall not engage in real estate development investment, nor shall it engage in stock investment through public trading.
