---
title: "The Joy That Slackers Will Never Experience"
description: "The Zhurong Mars rover landed successfully, and the chief designer shed tears of excitement. I think these tears are mainly the joy after long-term arduous work and success. Slackers will probably never experience this joy."
category: "startup"
tags:
  - "management"
pubDate: 2021-05-16
heroImage: "https://cos.zbz.ai/images/202310181257286.avif"
heroImageAlt: "ZBZ-"
heroImageWidth: 1960
heroImageHeight: 1102
authors:
  - default
draft: false
featured: false
locale: "en"
---

### Weekly Thoughts

I used to read Inamori Kazuo's "Living" and saw him repeatedly mention a point of view that the greatest meaning of life is hard work. Wang Yangming also said that achieving conscience is practicing on things. I deeply agree with the view that one must work hard to live. Work does make me happy.

I vaguely remember that someone on Zhihu once shamelessly believed that one should only do as much work as one gets paid for in a position, and even taught people how to slack off. I am not sure how such people get used to wrong ideas. I just have a question, do they educate their children like this? Of course, we must also distinguish here. If, like Liu Cixin, one can produce a "Three-Body Problem" while slacking off while doing one's job well, it is understandable. I am afraid that most people just treat browsing web pages as serious business.

The Zhurong Mars rover landed successfully, and the chief designer shed tears of excitement. I think these tears are mainly the joy after long-term arduous work and success. Slackers will probably never experience this joy.

### Weekly Events

- A washed-up private equity firm revealed that a listed company illegally manipulated stock prices in the name of "market value management", attracting "zero tolerance" from the Securities Regulatory Commission. Will the market enthusiasm that just ignited last Friday be extinguished?
- Israel dismantled buildings with precision, not even sparing the Hamas building rented by US news media.

### Weekly Market

Period: 2021-05-10——2021-05-15

4-week review: The three major indices fell together this week. The top three wind industry gainers were office, leisure products, and automobiles; the top three losers were papermaking, furniture, and education. Wind concepts liquor, digital currency, and COVID-19 detection; the top three losers were tungsten ore, rare earth, and MLCC.

3-week review: The three major indices rose slightly this week. The top three wind industry gainers were daily chemicals, healthcare, and biotechnology; the top three losers were leisure products, oil and gas, and forestry indices. Wind concepts vaccines, lithium batteries, and yellow rice wine; the top three losers were HNA series, aquatic products, and Hainan Free Trade Zone.

2-week review: The three major indices rose slightly this week. The top three wind industry gainers were shipping, biotechnology, and healthcare; the top three losers were airports, forestry, and motorcycle indices. The top three wind concept gainers were vaccines, medical aesthetics, and biological products; the top three losers were small base stations, 4G, and Stock Connect.

1-week review: The three major indices all fell this week, and the index has been in a volatile market for a long time. The top three wind industry gainers were coal, shipping, and steel; the top three losers were motorcycles, airports, and catering indices. The top wind concept gainers were iron ore, coal, and soda ash; the top three losers were consumption, small base stations, and semiconductors.

This week's review: The three major indices all rose this week, mainly due to the surge in the whole market on Friday. It will still be in a volatile market in the short term. The top three wind industry gainers were biotechnology, automobiles, and securities firms; the top three losers were chemical fiber, motorcycles, and petrochemicals. The top three wind concept gainers were participating in finance, Chengdu-Chongqing Special Zone, and smart grid; the top three losers were PTA, steel, and rare earth.

| Market (%)                     | Index    | This Week | 1 Week Ago | 2 Weeks Ago | 3 Weeks Ago |
| ------------------------------ | -------- | --------- | ---------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| Shanghai Composite Index       | 3490.38  | 2.09      | -0.69      | -0.79       | 1.39        |
| Shenzhen Component Index       | 14208.78 | 1.97      | -2.31      | 0.6         | 4.6         |
| ChiNext Index                  | 3033.81  | 4.24      | -2.53      | 3.24        | 7.58        |
| Hang Seng Index                | 28027.57 | -2.04     | -0.4       | -2.06       | 0.38        |
| HSCEI                          | 1094.81  | -1.41     | 1.83       | -1.6        | 0.42        |
| Hang Seng HK Chinese Companies | 4067.77  | -1.21     | 1.51       | -2.06       | -0.36       |
| Dow Jones Index                | 34382.13 | -1.14     | 2.67       | -0.49       | -0.46       |
| Nasdaq                         | 13429.98 | -2.34     | -1.51      | -0.39       | -0.25       |
| S&P 500 Index                  | 4173.85  | -1.39     | 1.23       | 0.02        | -0.13       |

| Market (CNY, Billion)   | This Week | Previous Week | 2 Weeks Ago | 3 Weeks Ago |
| ----------------------- | --------- | ------------- | ----------- | ----------- |
| Shanghai Stock Connect  | 7.25      | -6.99         | 67.92       | 247.09      |
| Shenzhen Stock Connect  | 19.87     | 12.64         | 40.50       | 121.94      |
| Hong Kong Stock Connect | 46.95     | -7.15         | 240.25      | 50.39       |

### Positions

| Code | Name               | Dynamics of this Period |
| :--- | :----------------- | :---------------------- |
| LKCO | Luokung Technology | Flat                    |
