---
title: "Magic Red Bull"
description: "Since the beginning of this year, Tesla's stock price has fallen by more than 60%. Analysts are not optimistic about the future demand for new energy vehicles, not optimistic about Musk's acquisition of Twitter, and not optimistic about lithium battery production capacity."
category: "startup"
tags:
  - "innovation"
pubDate: 2022-12-18
heroImage: "https://cos.zbz.ai/images/202310031546135.avif"
heroImageAlt: "ZBZ-Magic Red Bull"
heroImageWidth: 1960
heroImageHeight: 1102
authors:
  - default
draft: false
featured: false
locale: "en"
---

**IT**

1. ChatGPT: Tried ChatGPT, very suitable for sorting out knowledge points. The article about important concepts in the crypto field was completely generated by ChatGPT in the form of Q&A. Behind ChatGPT is Openai's large model GPT-3. In the future, such large models may be opened to various applications as digital infrastructure. Profit by selling shovels.
2. Craft: Apple's all-platform document editing application Craft landed on Setapp, which improved the cost-effectiveness of Setapp a lot. In addition, Craft has developed an assistant function based on GPT-3. Users can call GPT-3 at any time during the document writing process. In addition, the diary application Diary on the Mac platform has also added a writing assistant based on GPT-3.
3. Browser: I paid attention to the ARC browser last year, but I haven't applied for a trial because the queue period is very long. Now using an education email, you can apply for internal testing on [Arc for Students](https://students.arc.net). If the education email suffix used is already an Arc Campus member, you can receive a trial invitation in 10 minutes.

   Arc uses the Chromium kernel, which is guaranteed in terms of speed; it uses vertical tabs, and divides tabs into three categories: regular, pinned, and temporary. The classification is too fine, and the effort is excessive. It also has a built-in drawing board and a small note application, which is useful, but I haven't found the local storage path. Arc also takes up a lot of computer resources. In addition, the Arc team plans to develop Arc into a paid browser. This should be a helpless choice for an independent browser. Safari, Chrome, and Edge, as a piece of the puzzle in many businesses of big manufacturers, do not need to consider independent profitability.

4. Miaoyan: A Mac-side Markdown editor developed natively using Swift5. Good looking, but not very usable yet.
5. [Baidu 20th Anniversary Documentary](https://haokan.baidu.com/v?vid=2025632054183117659&pd=bjh&fr=bjhauthor&type=video), see how that modest gentleman calculates every step everywhere.
6. Input method: [WeChat Keyboard](https://wetype.weixin.qq.com) after more than a year of brewing, began small-scale internal testing, and now the iOS and Mac versions are exposed. I personally like to toss input methods, and have tried all input methods on the market. Currently, I am using the Mac built-in input method. First, for privacy, second, in the cloud era, there is almost no difference between various input methods in word output, and third, the built-in input method is most suitable for the system in terms of color and layout matching. According to Zhang Xiaolong, WeChat should satisfy all the above functions. But I don't want to use it because its interface is exactly the same as the Mac built-in input method.

**BT**

1. Pfizer's new crown special drug Paxlovid is on sale in China, which can be used for treatment after diagnosis, not for prevention.
2. Synthetic biology: In 2004, "MIT Technology Review" rated synthetic biology as one of the ten new technologies that will change the world. In 2014, synthetic biology was listed by the US Department of Defense as one of the six disruptive technologies prioritized for development in the 21st century. It only became popular in the Chinese venture capital circle this year. The essence of synthetic biology is to let cells produce substances that humans want. The reason for the rapid development is the rapid decline in the cost of DNA sequencing and the rapid development of bioinformatics and big data technology.
3. Paracetamol synthesis route
   1. Nitration: Phenol is matured in concentrated sulfuric acid, and mixed acid is added dropwise at low temperature to generate p-nitrophenol;
   2. Reduction: p-nitrophenol is reduced in methanol solution by high-pressure hydrogenation to generate p-aminophenol; hydrazine hydrate, zinc powder, etc. can also be used for reduction;
   3. Acetylation: In acetic acid solution, acetic anhydride is added dropwise to p-aminophenol to generate crude paracetamol;
   4. Recrystallization: Crude paracetamol is recrystallized in absolute ethanol, and then vacuum dried to obtain the finished product.

For those students with strong hands-on ability, save yourself.

## Market

1. The Central Economic Work Conference was held, promoting consumption, internal and external circulation, proactive fiscal policy and precise monetary policy, and industrial policy are the key points. Real estate is the key point for risk prevention.
   1. Priority should be given to restoring and expanding consumption, and key industries are housing improvement, new energy vehicles, and elderly care services.
   2. Build a new energy system and implement a new round of action to increase grain production capacity by 100 billion jin. Increase grain production capacity by 100 billion jin
   3. Technology entrepreneurship: new energy, artificial intelligence, biomanufacturing, green and low-carbon, quantum technology, digital economy, platform companies
   4. Prevent real estate financial risks
   5. Promote rural revitalization, the Belt and Road, and regional coordinated development
2. Since the beginning of this year, Tesla's stock price has fallen by more than 60%. Analysts are not optimistic about the future demand for new energy vehicles, not optimistic about Musk's acquisition of Twitter, and not optimistic about lithium battery production capacity.

## Business

1. The founder of FTX exchange was arrested in the Bahamas and may be extradited to the United States.
2. Market makers in the currency circle are still in fierce turmoil, Binance has a net outflow of funds, and BNB has plummeted.
3. The Red Bull brand is used by three companies: Austrian Red Bull, Thai Red Bull, and Chinese Red Bull. There are four corresponding products in the mainland market. These products are not only different in packaging types, but also different in production companies, mainly due to the business cooperation and final business disputes between Red Bull founder Chaleo Yoovidhya and Austrian businessman Dietrich Mateschitz, while Red Bull Sports is completely an asset of Austrian Red Bull. Now Red Bull not only sponsors extreme sports events, but also has established sports operation companies such as F1 racing and German football clubs. You can see its sponsored events on the [Red Bull Global Website](www.redbull.com).

**Related Links**

[Key Points of the 2024 Central Economic Work Conference](https://zbz.ai/en/posts/20231228-spring-2024/)

[Key Points of the 2022 Central Economic Conference](https://zbz.ai/en/posts/20221218-red-bull/)

[Key Points of the 2023 Central Economic Work Conference](https://zbz.ai/en/posts/20230303-spring-2023/)

[Key Points of the 2022 Central Economic Conference](https://zbz.ai/en/posts/20221218-red-bull/)

[Key Points of the 2021 Central Economic Work Conference](https://zbz.ai/en/posts/20201213-2021-do-what/)
