---
title: "Drawing a Circle on the Southeast Coast"
description: "Taiwan is like China's testicles; occasionally squeezed by others, it really hurts..."
category: "life"
tags:
  - "roam"
pubDate: 2022-08-08
heroImage: "https://cos.zbz.ai/images/202310281654731.avif"
heroImageAlt: "RealRip-Drawing a Circle on the Southeast Coast"
heroImageWidth: 1960
heroImageHeight: 1102
authors:
  - default
draft: false
featured: false
locale: "en"
---

**We have always talked about recovering the island of Taiwan, not the people on the island of Taiwan.**

No one wants war to break out, let alone a fratricidal one. On the evening of August 2nd, before Pelosi landed on the island of Taiwan, Hu Xijin came up with a plan for the PLA to accompany Pelosi's plane. I thought that was the bottom line of the high command, that this battle was bound to be fought, and I was very anxious. If this battle were to be fought, apart from going to the battlefield, it would mean donating military funds. Half an hour after Pelosi landed, Xinhua News Agency released the plan for the PLA's exercises around the island of Taiwan. I couldn't help but shout, "Brilliant!" It was a grand strategy. I don't know how long our PLA has been waiting for a big opportunity like Pelosi's visit. It was only then that I understood three issues.

![]

First, we are not trying to conflict with the United States, but to recover the island of Taiwan. After Pelosi leaves, it will be too late to deal with the Taiwan independence elements on the island. Closing the door to beat the dog—it's none of your business.

Second, we have always maintained that the island of Taiwan is an inalienable part of China, a beautiful land that cannot be missing a single bit. But we have never said that the Taiwan independence elements on the island are Chinese compatriots. For this group of people, everyone has the right to punish them.

Third, the rise of China is irreversible, and no one can stop it. Just like the rise of Spain, Portugal, and the Netherlands in the Age of Discovery, Britain during the Industrial Revolution, and the United States in the Electric Age, the road is obstructed and long, but the trend is unstoppable.

When a new king rises, the old king is bound to obstruct it in every possible way. Taiwan is like China's testicles; sometimes it gets squeezed by others, and it really hurts... The circle drawn this time has, to a certain extent, hidden this testicle. For this matter of great strategic significance, the old beauty (USA) unexpectedly did not have an overreaction, or it can be said that there was basically no reaction. Is the old king getting old, or is there a bigger conspiracy? We need to wait and see. As long as Taiwan does not return for a day, there is a possibility that the testicles will be squeezed at any time.

**The Outlaws**

Recently, I watched Ma Dong-seok's "The Outlaws" series. Both movies are based on the South Korean police clearing out Chinese-Korean gangs in South Korea in the 1990s. There is nothing new in terms of the story, but several fight scenes are punch-to-flesh and very satisfying. This may be mainly due to Ma Dong-seok's professional skills. "Joseonjok" is the official term for ethnic Koreans living in Northeast China. We generally call them "Xianzu" people. In the era when South Korean light industry moved to Qingdao, Dalian, and other places, Xianzu people generally acted as translators for South Koreans in the mainland or helped manage factories. Later, as domestic industries rose, those South Koreans who came to China to make a fortune lost their competitiveness and retreated to South Korea, and most Xianzu people also returned to the three northeastern provinces. At that time, South Korea's economy was developed, and some Xianzu people also smuggled themselves into South Korea to work illegally or open small shops. Of course, some also developed into gangs and even competed with South Korean gangs for territory at one time. This is also the background of the "The Outlaws" series.

**Learning**

[GitCoin Founder Kevin Owocki's Thoughts on GitcoinDAO](https://web.archive.org/web/20221202095028/https://media.daorayaki.org/daorayaki-gitcoindao-qun-ti-si-wei-zheng-zai-jue-qi/): Gitcoin is a decentralized collaboration platform built on the Ethereum network. It provides a community for developers. In addition to allowing them to collaborate on open-source projects through bounties, Gitcoin also provides a public platform for projects to apply for "grants" from the community and the Ethereum Foundation.

Previously, thousands of projects have received donations through Gitcoin. Vitalik Buterin once donated AKITA tokens worth $431 million in his account to Gitcoin. Someone once described Gitcoin as Ethereum's "arsenal". Every public chain hopes to have a Gitcoin, but only ETH has the community vitality to activate this product.

Gitcoin's governance token is GTC. "We believe that the future of Gitcoin is a community-centric, autonomous DAO that can raise funds for public affairs. GTC is our first step towards gradually realizing the decentralization of Gitcoin. With the continuous development of Gitcoin, many governance issues have emerged, including the types of projects that can accept funding, the definition of malicious behavior against the quadratic funding mechanism, and the consequences that malicious actors should bear. These issues should be decided by the community." Gitcoin officials said so.
