---
title: "Some IT Trends Observed Recently"
description: 'Promoting domestic alternative products in the public service sector first can play a demonstrative role. Second, it is a disguised subsidy to domestic alternative developers through buying and selling transactions. This not only avoids giving people an excuse to say "disguised subsidies to domestic enterprises", but also invests funds in excellent enterprises through the horse racing mechanism.'
category: "startup"
tags:
  - "reflect"
pubDate: 2022-11-20
heroImage: "https://cos.zbz.ai/images/202310281630770.avif"
heroImageAlt: "ZBZ-Some IT Trends Observed Recently"
heroImageWidth: 1960
heroImageHeight: 1102
authors:
  - default
draft: false
featured: false
locale: "en"
---

The government and banking systems are undergoing an unusually strict localization of office electronic products. Domestic substitution and independent control have been talked about for many years, and now they are finally determined to proceed. In the past, domestic substitution was all talk and no action. First, the level of domestic products was indeed not as good as imported ones. Second, the ecosystem of foreign electronic products from operating systems to office software was becoming increasingly solid, and the migration cost for users was high. Third, the government was not determined to do it. Now that the situation of being controlled by others has appeared, it has to be done.

Promoting domestic alternative products in the public service sector first can play a demonstrative role. Second, it is a disguised subsidy to domestic alternative developers through buying and selling transactions. This not only avoids giving people an excuse to say "disguised subsidies to domestic enterprises", but also invests funds in excellent enterprises through the horse racing mechanism.

In the third quarter of 2022, Amazon's cloud business recorded its lowest growth rate since 2014. Amazon's explanation was the global economic recession, and their customers became increasingly conservative in cloud business, dragging down the business. Alibaba Cloud and Tencent Cloud face the same problem, and the analyzed reasons are the same. In stark contrast, the cloud business of the three major domestic operators grew by more than 100% year-on-year. The main reason is that the operators are the contractors of "East Data West Computing" and cloud-network integration, and government cloud business and state-owned enterprise cloud migration are almost all theirs.

Goertek was kicked out of Apple suppliers due to falsification of the yield rate of AirPods Pro 2, and the orders were taken over by Luxshare Precision. Apple supply chain foundries such as Goertek, OFILM, and Luxshare Precision seem to face the same fate, and their life and death are completely controlled by a large downstream customer.
