---
title: "Analyzing the 20th National Congress Report using OKR Theory"
description: "From an OKR perspective, comprehensively building a modern socialist country, achieving the second centenary goal, and comprehensively promoting the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation with Chinese-style modernization is the O (Objective), and the rest of the report content is KR (Key Results)."
category: "invest"
tags:
  - "reflect"
pubDate: 2022-10-17
heroImage: "https://cos.zbz.ai/images/202310230959160.avif"
heroImageAlt: "RealRip-Analyzing the 20th National Congress Report using OKR Theory"
heroImageWidth: 1960
heroImageHeight: 1102
authors:
  - default
draft: false
featured: false
locale: "en"
---

The 20th National Congress of the Communist Party of China set the tone for China's development direction for the next five years and even up to 2050: comprehensively building a modern socialist country, achieving the second centenary goal, and comprehensively promoting the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation with Chinese-style modernization. These three descriptions are actually one thing: becoming the world's number one. From an OKR perspective, this is the O (Objective). In fact, this task started when the first centenary goal was completed in 2020. Counting from then, the realization time is roughly divided into two parts: the first 15 years will still focus on economic construction to achieve modernization; the next 15 years will focus on increasing influence.

The goal is clear, the path is clear, but the difficulties are also obvious. First, internal reform has entered deep water. Some people who have completed the accumulation of power and wealth are bound to oppose common prosperity. Second, competition between great powers is like neighbors comparing themselves. The second in command wants to move up, so the boss is naturally unhappy. The third and fourth are naturally envious, jealous, and hateful, and a bunch of poor relatives behind them will come to ask for benefits. Therefore, the report of the 20th National Congress mentioned that we must be prepared to withstand high winds and waves and even stormy seas. We must not believe in heresy, not be afraid of ghosts, not believe in internal unhealthy trends, and not be afraid of foreign devils.

**KR 1**: High-quality development. The reason why high-quality development is listed as a KR is that without a material and technological foundation, there is no modernization. In the past, everyone mostly said that without a material foundation, there is no superstructure, and without fixed assets, there is no way to be decent. This time, technology has been added, which means that in addition to fixed assets, we must also be able to do real work and not be "choked" by others to be truly decent.

**KR 2**: High-level market economy system. It mainly includes making state-owned economy stronger, better, and larger with great fanfare, encouraging the private economy, focusing on developing the real economy, relying on rural revitalization to make up for rural shortcomings, and relying on international trade to solve product sales.

**KR 3**: Cultivate talents to be masters of the country and protect legitimate rights and interests according to law. Talent cultivation starts from babies. "Chicken babies" (intense parenting) will continue, but maybe in a different way. Genius figures do not have to follow the rules and go to elementary, middle, high school, and university step by step. It is even crueler for ordinary people. Some will become white-collar workers, helping artificial intelligence to complete creative work; others will become blue-collar workers, supplementing the real economy, helping robots to complete production work. Xiao Ming types on the keyboard in the office, and I screw screws in the workshop. We are all the great working class, and we all have a bright future. Now, the interests of the working class are only protected by a Labor Law. According to the report, soon, China's official trade unions will also support our working class like the United Auto Workers in the United States. After all, Chapter 1 of the Constitution has already stipulated that the People's Republic of China is a socialist state under the people's democratic dictatorship led by the working class and based on the alliance of workers and peasants.

**KR 4**: Maintain the red foundation. We have a socialist complex, and Europe and the United States have a capitalist complex. Everyone will still attack each other. In the past, many so-called public intellectuals on Weibo who ate the party's food and smashed the party's pot, as well as low-level red and high-level black, have been cleaned up almost completely, but we still have to dare to struggle, be good at struggle, and strengthen historical confidence.

**KR 5**: Concentrate on rejuvenation, but also consider the immediate needs, poetry, and distance. We cannot live frugally now and affect public welfare for the goal 30 years later. In addition, every flower and tree has feelings, and we must protect mountains, rivers, forests, fields, lakes, grass, and sand. Regarding carbon peaking, it is to persist in establishing before breaking to prevent supply interruption.

**KR 6**: Security and national defense. Among them, the construction of a professional emergency management system is very necessary. The implementation of key projects in national defense science and technology and weapons and equipment hides key investment opportunities.

**KR 7**: Taiwan is like a man's testicle. Being exposed outside is not only unsightly but also can be manipulated by others at will, affecting the great cause of rejuvenation, so it must return. Comrade Musk's proposal that Taiwan can consider reunification with China with the status of "a special administrative region" is very good. Relevant departments in the mainland can study and promote it together with friendly parties in Taiwan.
