---
title: "Some Characteristics of Listed Companies Affiliated with Zhejiang University"
description: "The motto of Zhejiang University is seeking truth and innovation. While teaching students to seek truth, Zhejiang University should also pay attention to cultivating morality."
category: "startup"
tags:
  - "innovation"
pubDate: 2022-11-27
heroImage: "https://cos.zbz.ai/images/202310281627258.avif"
heroImageAlt: "ZBZ-Some Characteristics of Listed Companies Affiliated with Zhejiang University"
heroImageWidth: 1960
heroImageHeight: 1102
authors:
  - default
draft: false
featured: false
locale: "en"
---

With the sentencing of the mysterious person "Sui Tianli", a number of A-share listed companies were involved. Some listed companies are proper honest people and victims, while others are in cahoots with Sui Tianli to conspire to deceive investors. Among them, a STAR Market company named Zeda Yisheng, Sui Tianli is not only its hidden shareholder, but also suspected of fraud together with companies under Sui Tianli's name.

The actual controllers of Zeda Yisheng are the couple Liu Xuesong and Lin Ying from the Zhejiang University system. Although the company is registered in Tianjin, most of the office addresses and employees are in Hangzhou, Zhejiang. Even the name Zeda is a homophone of Zhejiang University (Zheda). The Liu couple are both outstanding graduates of Zhejiang University. After graduation, Teacher Liu stayed at Zhejiang University and worked his way up to the director of the Institute of Modern Traditional Chinese Medicine at Zhejiang University. Ms. Lin had many interactions with the Zhejiang University affiliated enterprise Zheda Wangxin after graduation. It is speculated that Zeda Yisheng was able to successfully list on the STAR Market at that time, and the Issuance Examination Committee may have also considered the Zhejiang University background.

Zhejiang University has always been a typical example of entrepreneurship by teachers and students in domestic universities. Zhejiang University emphasizes seeking truth and pragmatism in academics and attaches importance to the development of applied disciplines. The success of some science and engineering laboratories is very suitable for industrialization. Teachers and students are keen on the industrialization of scientific research results. In order to encourage teachers and students to start businesses, Zhejiang University has issued intellectual property sharing policies to support teachers and students' entrepreneurship, provided entrepreneurial services such as entrepreneurial guidance and office space, and initiated venture capital funds to support teachers and students' entrepreneurship with real money. Under a good entrepreneurial atmosphere, the Zhejiang University series has become one of the four important entrepreneurial forces in Zhejiang alongside the returnee series, the Zhejiang merchant series, and the Alibaba series.

According to the statistics of the "2022 Zhejiang University Alumni Listed Companies List", as of May 20, 2022, entrepreneurs from the Zhejiang University series served as founders, actual controllers, chairmen or general managers of 311 listed companies, and managed or controlled 280 mainstream listed companies, mainly concentrated in information technology (82), industry (70), optional consumption (41), healthcare (32), materials (21) and other industries.

Among them, the famous ones are Duan Yongping of BBK, Huang Zheng of Pinduoduo, Shi Yuzhu of Giant Network, etc. Most enterprises adhere to the Zhejiang University spirit of seeking truth and innovation, but there are also individual Zhejiang University alumni listed enterprises facing problems of one kind or another. For example, Lu Jianming, president of the Hangzhou Zhejiang University Alumni Association, was investigated for violation of information disclosure in Tongce Medical controlled by him. Fang Yi, former chairman of the Zhejiang University Student Union and founder of Daily Interactive, was warned for business fraud for two consecutive years. Liu Ruopeng, a top student of Chu Kochen Honors College and founder of Kuang-Chi Technology, was warned for violation of information disclosure. This time, the fraud of Zeda Yisheng has pushed the problems of Zhejiang University series listed companies to the level of incumbent teachers at Zhejiang University. Perhaps there is not much connection between the independent companies with problems, but there are always related companies with problems, which at least shows that these companies have the same problem, that is, the moral bottom line of the founder, and this is closely related to a person's education.

The motto of Zhejiang University is seeking truth and innovation. While teaching students to seek truth, Zhejiang University should also pay attention to cultivating morality.
