---
title: "Those Influential People Have Passed Away"
description: "Both Queen Elizabeth II and Inamori Kazuo were well-liked by Chinese people. If we were to find a common trait between them, it would be 'gentleness and kindness'."
category: "life"
tags:
  - "reflect"
pubDate: 2022-09-14
heroImage: "https://cos.zbz.ai/images/202310281646108.avif"
heroImageAlt: "ZBZ-Those Influential People Have Passed Away"
heroImageWidth: 1960
heroImageHeight: 1102
authors:
  - default
draft: false
featured: false
locale: "en"
---

On August 24, Inamori Kazuo, the "God of Management" in East Asia, passed away. Inamori Kazuo came from an ordinary background. By cleverly integrating Wang Yangming's philosophy with modern Western management methods, he successfully founded two Fortune 500 companies, Kyocera and KDDI, and was appointed at a critical moment to save Japan Airlines from distress. He not only successfully managed enterprises himself but also wrote books and established training institutions to cultivate entrepreneurs. He truly practiced Confucianism: establishing virtue, establishing achievements, and establishing words—the three immortalities. He also has huge influence in the circle of Chinese entrepreneurs, and many famous entrepreneurs take him as a role model.

On September 8, Queen Elizabeth II passed away. The Queen was truly born with a silver spoon in her mouth, perhaps the only person in the world who can be called "nobility". The Queen is not only respected in the UK but also enjoys a high reputation globally. As a British citizen, she directly participated in World War II. Although there are issues such as Hong Kong and system differences between China and the UK, she visited China many times and enjoyed a good reputation in China. The British royal family has been in constant turmoil. Like Grandmother Jia in "Dream of the Red Chamber", she maintained the stability and external image of the royal family. In her later years, the Queen appeared in the public eye as an amiable old lady. After her death, the internet was overwhelmingly mourning her.

Both Queen Elizabeth II and Inamori Kazuo were well-liked by Chinese people. If we were to find a common trait between them, it would be "gentleness and kindness". Both of them had an altruistic spirit of serving others, and were humble and gentle. The key is that they both achieved amazing personal achievements.
