---
title: "In the Currency Circle, the Most Important Thing is Off-site Earning Ability"
description: "In the currency circle, the most important thing is off-site earning ability, because if you are not careful, it will return to zero."
category: "startup"
tags:
  - "management"
pubDate: 2022-03-12
heroImage: "https://cos.zbz.ai/images/202309280820280.avif"
heroImageAlt: "RealRip-"
heroImageWidth: 1960
heroImageHeight: 1102
authors:
  - default
draft: false
featured: false
locale: "en"
---

Since entering the crypto circle at the beginning of this year, I have spent about two or three hours on it every day. When dealing with other things, my thoughts often jump to the blockchain, which can be regarded as a heavy obsession.

The reason why the crypto circle is so attractive is that it is a brand-new technical field in human history. A group of technical geeks are promoting development, and the industry is progressing rapidly. Because of its strong financial attributes, it is easy for the general public to participate, and the significant wealth effect attracts a large number of people to enter the circle. The circle is full of new technologies, new projects, new overnight riches, and running away with donations every day. Due to the anonymity and decentralization, which are contrary to the centralized state power, the government's prudent attitude and strict supervision have caused the crypto circle to become a gray area, which has intensified the excitement here. It is just like the Westworld.

The same thing has different meanings for different people, and the time and energy invested should also be different. Take GameFi as an example. For a responsible founder, this is his everything, and he has to put 100% of his energy into it; for venture capital institutions, the game is just one of the many projects he invests in. As long as resources are imported, the founder is helped to do the project well, and the cash is successfully realized; for the wool party, it is over after digging, selling and withdrawing; for ordinary players, the game is just a part of daily pastime; and for Southeast Asian players who are unemployed under the epidemic, chain games are his everything; for investors in the secondary market, they only need to do due diligence and then trade.

People, besides coins, stocks, futures, gold, there is life. The most important thing is that there is a classic saying in the crypto circle: in the currency circle, the most important thing is off-site earning ability, because if you are not careful, it will return to zero.

Written on the second anniversary of 312.
