---
title: "No Food in Reality, Virtual Currency Goes to Zero"
description: "So the question is, which is more important, no food to eat or currency going to zero."
category: "life"
tags:
  - "reflect"
pubDate: 2022-05-14
heroImage: "https://cos.zbz.ai/images/202310281707983.avif"
heroImageAlt: "RealRip-No Food in Reality, Virtual Currency Goes to Zero"
heroImageWidth: 1960
heroImageHeight: 1102
authors:
  - default
draft: false
featured: false
locale: "en"
---

First, many places strictly investigated the incident of cutting wheat for silage. In the past, farms mostly used alfalfa for feed, and some corn stalks for silage. This year, there have been cases of cutting wheat for silage in some places. Rice, corn, and wheat are China's three main staple foods. It is rare to use wheat to be harvested as silage. Putting aside the conspiracy theory that hostile forces induce farmers to cut green with bad intentions, think about it calmly. The general reasons are as follows: Russia's invasion of Ukraine has caused a sharp reduction in grain in the two major grain exporting countries, and rising grain prices are a common consensus. Second, domestic wheat was sown late last year, and the yield per mu will definitely be affected. These two points have already been mentioned in the article "When Shanghai children are isolated alone, Ukrainian children have already carried their bags and fled to foreign countries". Third, summer floods have occurred frequently in recent years, especially last year, when floods in the north caused almost no corn harvest. As a result, some foresight farms began to advance the silage that used to start in the second half of the year to now, and harvested wheat at a high price. From the perspective of wheat growers, I paid land rent, contracted land, and grew wheat. Someone bought it in advance at a high price. Of course, there is nothing wrong with it. This is completely a market behavior. For those trolls on the Internet who hide behind the keyboard, have lazy limbs, cannot distinguish between five grains, and always say that overseas private interests are plotting against China, and that silage makers are running dogs, I can only use the picture below to reply.

It is conceivable that when the real food famine comes, the first batch of people to starve will be urban people, and then this group of people will form a blind flow to the countryside to "beat the local tyrants". The plot may be approximately equal to the doctor killing Niu Er's cow in "Cow", or the two scenes of refugees opening the owner's warehouse and grabbing grain in "1942". To avoid this from happening, first of all, we must plan ahead. Believe that the "certain big eastern country hoarding grain internationally" reported by the media is not groundless. Secondly, we must take out real money to implement the strategy of storing grain in technology and storing grain in the land. We cannot just shout slogans, fool farmers into farming, and not let farmers make money. Third, ensure that as mentioned in "Even the boss went to work for someone else", agricultural conditions give way to the epidemic, and old farmers sneaking to plant land at night will not happen.

Second, the LUNA/UST currency pair crashed. As an algorithmic stablecoin, UST does have innovations, but this idea is of a social experiment nature at the current stage. When LFG realized the fatal weakness of the LUNA project and hoped to stabilize UST by using BTC as a deposit reserve, the collapse had already begun. Many people questioned from the beginning that as a stablecoin, the project party's maintenance of the annualized rate at 20% through subsidies is unsustainable, but people luckily thought that they would not be the last person to take the baton, and entered the game one after another. No one would have thought that a stablecoin could plummet 100% within three days. What is even more incredible is that some people do not understand the mechanism of LUNA and UST at all, see LUNA plummet, and go to buy the bottom. Profit makes wisdom faint to the extreme.

So the question is, which is more important, no food to eat or currency going to zero.

Elon Musk's answer is: If you are a billionaire but trapped on a tropical island, then your money actually has no value. Because there is no resource allocation on the isolated island, money is a database of resource allocation. Except for yourself, there are no resources on the island to allocate, so money is useless.
