---
title: "Farewell 2022"
description: "2022 was a fulfilling and busy year: getting rid of the impact of the new crown epidemic, fully promoting my own entrepreneurship, in-depth research on cryptocurrency and blockchain, listening to many excellent podcasts, and chasing favorite American dramas."
category: "life"
tags:
  - "reflect"
pubDate: 2022-12-31
heroImage: "https://cos.zbz.ai/images/202309280820277.avif"
heroImageAlt: "RealRip-Farewell 2022"
heroImageWidth: 1960
heroImageHeight: 1102
authors:
  - default
draft: false
featured: false
locale: "en"
---

Today is the last day of 2022. On the occasion of saying goodbye to the old and welcoming the new, look back at the past and remember the gains and losses, and look forward to the future with hope.

The beginning of every year makes people full of hope, longing for the future, making a lot of plans, setting a lot of goals, and then spending 365 days ups and downs. The end of every year will make people feel a little hesitant and anxious. It seems that there are always unfinished tasks and goals every year. Perhaps the charm of life lies in this, and there are always imperfections. Gradually, I began to learn to be smart. Set goals higher at the beginning of the year. At the end of the year, you can be very happy if you complete eight or nine out of ten goals.

2020, 2021, 2022 three years of the new crown pneumonia epidemic, everyone suffered extremely, from being at a loss about the epidemic, to isolation, vaccines, nucleic acid, health codes, and then to the last month of 2022, rural cities, streets and alleys, every household should be positive like a storm, finally, everyone spent three years, left the new crown pneumonia in 2022, entered 2023 with a brand new attitude, and continued the life before 2019.

Started full-time entrepreneurship in 2019, three years of entrepreneurship, three years of epidemic. In these three years, thanks to my own efforts, strong partner, care from friends, and trust from customers. In these three years, we fought for services, products, customers, and projects, and did everything. In these three years, the company's performance doubled every year. Although the starting base is small, I like this sense of accomplishment reflected in the data. Statistics say that 80% of start-ups do not live for more than three years. We survived. We are the remaining 20% survivors. We are proud of our achievements. We are not going to Beijing to take the exam, our goal is not to be always on the road, our goal is to gain a permanent foothold in this cruel business jungle where the weak eat the strong and there are many masters. Everything in 2023 is full of unknowns. Without the impact of the epidemic, everyone will focus more on making money, and business competition will be more cruel. In order not to be eliminated by the industry, you must continue to fight to survive. It is necessary to practice internal skills hard, provide customers with the top services in the industry, and consolidate the city; and smartly look for more opportunities and expand the territory.

This year, I learned about the brand new cryptocurrency industry. During this year, the industry went from prosperity to decline, and paid a lot of tuition fees, but after seeing the Ukrainian people under the shadow of war using cryptocurrency to preserve personal assets, I am still confident in this industry. The bottom layer of cryptocurrency is blockchain. In order to have a full understanding of the industry, I read "Mastering Ethereum", "Blockchain, Distributed Business and Smart Data Future", "Leek's Self-Cultivation", "From Bitcoin to Burning Man and Others", "Digital Currency: Bitcoin Data Report Operation Guide", "Digital Currency: Currency Revolution in Progress", "Playing with Bitcoin" this year.

This year, I started listening to podcasts. At first, I thought podcasts were just niche tools for some people to entertain themselves. When I found some excellent podcasts, I found that the people who make excellent podcasts are very excellent professionals. So, I got out of hand and fell in love with podcasts. My favorite podcasts this year are "Dongqiang Xidiao", "Huzuo Huyou", "Dahua Open Source", "Business is like this", "a16z", "Meme Wave", "National Grand Theater | Listening to Classical", "Silicon Valley 101", "Jump into the Rabbit Hole", "Story FM", "Yixi", "White Night Theater", "History of Science Commentary", "Shu Wo Zhiyan", "Gezhi Lundao", "Hupan Sanbanfu", "Bu Mingbai".

This year, I continued to chase the TV series "Billions", "Westworld" and "Yellowstone". "Billions" became mediocre, "Westworld" went bad, "Yellowstone" not only maintained excellent standards, but also gradually built a Yellowstone universe through two derivative dramas "1883" and "1923". The Yellowstone universe cleverly integrates the concepts of family, responsibility, and wealth into the survival of generations of the Dutton family.

This year, I still record the bits and pieces of investment, entrepreneurship, and life through blogs. I updated 35 articles throughout the year. Although I didn't update every week, I still have to give myself a big affirmation. Every word is an in-depth dialogue with myself.

The deepest experience this year is that the best investment is to invest in yourself, and you must put all your energy into your work; you don't need to waste energy trying to change an adult; but you must do your best to help every minor.

This year, I discovered more and more that the most cliché simple concepts are the most useful, such as honesty, confidence, carefulness, cherishing time, and daily clearing. If you put these great principles into practice, the level of speaking and doing things will improve a lot.

The biggest learning experience this year is that if you want to quickly understand an industry, you must read books and read classics. Those classics that condense a lot of painstaking efforts of professionals are a shortcut to quickly understand an industry, which is much more effective than reading online articles and public accounts.
