---
title: "Embracing Generative AI"
description: "Generative AI technology can provide huge help to people in fields such as information processing, writing, and intelligent recommendation, and has the potential to evolve into the form of a personal digital assistant. However, it also faces problems such as lack of coherence and logic, lack of diversity, and training data limitations. To avoid being eliminated, people need to learn to ask questions, learn new skills, maintain innovation and creative thinking, maintain connections between people, and solve the problems faced by generative AI. At the same time, proactively embracing generative AI can secure a place in the strict survival environment of the future."
category: "startup"
tags:
  - "reflect"
pubDate: 2013-03-03
heroImage: "https://cos.zbz.ai/images/202309280820277.avif"
heroImageAlt: "RealRip-Preface"
heroImageWidth: 1960
heroImageHeight: 1102
authors:
  - default
draft: false
featured: false
locale: "en"
---

## Intuitive Feeling

I have been trying to use ChatGPT in work scenarios recently. It can aggregate and organize information, and give a very complete and accurate answer based on questions.

Currently, ChatGPT has huge advantages in word processing work mainly based on information aggregation and organization and fixed text formats. It can be used to write industry research reports and formulate business plans. Looking at it now, ChatGPT can help people in at least two aspects. For individuals, one is to make up for personal knowledge shortcomings, help people check for gaps and fill them, and form a more comprehensive personal knowledge system. The second is to use a new skill or new method that is completely unknown to solve non-professional problems in a zero-knowledge background. For example, everyone can use ChatGPT to generate video scripts for specific topics. In the business field, generative AI is particularly suitable for generating industry reports, research and analysis, providing business guidance, etc. In the past, buyers mostly purchased these contents from third parties in the form of purchasing services. With the popularization of generative AI, Party A's demand for related content will be greatly reduced, and companies that provide consulting services as a profit model will gradually lose their original market and be replaced by AI.

## Technology Behind ChatGPT

ChatGPT is a large-scale language model based on deep learning and natural language processing (NLP) principles. It uses the Transformer neural network architecture to process and understand natural language input and generate responses.

During the training process, ChatGPT is fed massive amounts of text data, allowing it to learn patterns and relationships in language. Once training is complete, it can generate responses to natural language input by predicting the sequence of words most likely to follow the input text.

ChatGPT uses generative AI technology. Generative AI is an artificial intelligence technology that aims to generate natural language similar to what humans say by learning the statistical laws of natural language datasets.

## Impact of Generative AI

Books bring knowledge to humans, networks bring information to people, and generative AI brings us integrated information.

A significant feature of generative AI is its ability to integrate and process large amounts of information and data to generate information that meets specific needs. This technology can bring huge value to humans in many fields, such as natural language processing, automatic writing, and intelligent recommendation. In production and life, generative AI can also help people process and analyze data in the production process faster, improve production efficiency and quality, and also provide consumers with better product recommendations and personalized services.

## How to Use and How to Avoid Being Eliminated

The impact of generative AI on humans is still in a very early stage. People have already felt a great shock. With the further maturity of generative AI, the impact of previous face recognition and interest recommendation on individuals was very limited. At worst, I don't use related products, but the impact of generative AI on humans is a real subversion and paradigm shift, which will be transmitted to everyone. No one can stay out of it, and even people who have never heard of generative AI will be impacted by it. Moreover, the less proactively people embrace generative AI, the more they are affected by it.

For individuals, the more proactively they embrace generative AI, the more they can secure a place in the strict survival environment of the future. The future is not a competition between humans and AI, but a competition between people who are good at using AI and people who are not good at using AI.

First, in the face of generative AI, we must first learn to ask questions. Only by asking professional questions can we get good answers. 1. Before asking a question, think about what answer you want to get and how important this answer is to you. This helps you better conceive your question. 2. The question should be concise, unambiguous, and easy to understand. And provide as much context information as possible. 3. Ensure the question is specific. A specific question will get a more specific answer, making it easier for you to understand and take action. 4. Avoid subjectivity. Try to avoid expressing your biases or subjective opinions in the question. This helps you get a more objective answer. 5. Use open-ended questions. Open-ended questions are those that cannot be simply answered with "yes" or "no". They can lead to deeper thinking and more specific answers.

Second, learn and master new skills: Generative AI is changing our production and lifestyle. People need to constantly learn and master new skills to adapt to this change. For example, learning programming, data analysis, artificial intelligence and other related skills, these skills will become important competitiveness for job hunting in the future. It is also necessary to actively learn and understand the development trend of generative AI, observe the possible impact of its development on personal life and work, and actively embrace change.

Third, maintain innovation and creative thinking: Although generative AI can help us automatically generate some content, it cannot replace our creative thinking. Maintaining innovation and creative thinking can make us more competitive.

Fourth, maintain connections between people: The development of generative AI may make people more dependent on networks and intelligent devices, but connections between people

Fifth, from now on, whether it is big or small matters in work and life, try to solve problems through generative AI. Whether programming, writing, creativity, psychological counseling, physical exercise can be replaced by generative AI, use it all as a substitute.

Sixth, generative AI has the potential to evolve into a real personal digital assistant. Therefore, in order to make AI understand you better, it is best to unify all interactions on one platform. Generative AI evolves fast, and the process of user interaction with AI will greatly help AI evolve. The earlier the AI platform is released, the more first-mover advantage it has.

Seventh, learn critical thinking, improve judgment ability, and maintain mental agility through writing, dealing with crisis events, etc.

## Problems Faced by Generative AI

First, generative AI is still in a very early stage. Generative AI may generate false, inaccurate or misleading content, especially when there is bias in the training data, which requires manual screening and processing.

Second, the generated content may lack coherence and logic: Since generative AI is usually based on probability models, the generated text may lack context coherence and logic.

Third, the generated content may lack diversity: Generative AI usually tends to generate content similar to training data, leading to a lack of diversity in the generated content.

Fourth, training data limitations: The performance of generative AI is limited by the quality and quantity of training data. If the training data is insufficient or not representative, the performance of generative AI may be affected.
