---
title: "Weekly Miscellaneous Notes"
description: "Miscellaneous and messy"
category: "life"
tags:
  - "reflect"
pubDate: 2023-03-03
heroImage: "https://cos.zbz.ai/images/202310031546133.avif"
heroImageAlt: "ZBZ-Miscellaneous and messy"
heroImageWidth: 1960
heroImageHeight: 1102
authors:
  - default
draft: false
featured: false
locale: "en"
---

This week, OpenAI released ChatGPT-4 ahead of Baidu's release of Ernie Bot, and Microsoft opened Bing integrated with GPT-4 to the public and announced that it would soon integrate GPT into Microsoft 365. It is an industry consensus that generative AI represented by ChatGPT will bring tremendous changes to human production and life. In the future, content production will be handed over to generative AI, product production will be handed over to robots, and human professional division of labor will emphasize the understanding of the essence of things more. We must embrace the AI wave very actively because every industry will be subverted. Take Chinese input methods as an example. Various Chinese input methods originally used simple natural language models to achieve context association and dynamic adjustment of word frequency, etc. But with GPT, humans only need to ask a good question to AI, and it will give you a good answer. The role of input methods in human-computer interaction has been greatly reduced.

---

I went to see The Wandering Earth 2 this week, and the theater was booked out. In this film, I saw the progress of domestic sci-fi movies in production standards, but the director seemed to want to talk more about the country and family through the movie, resulting in the film being neither an explosive hard sci-fi nor a touching drama that makes people cry, but rather like a disaster film with too much sensationalism. I originally expected to see a hard sci-fi similar to "Ad Astra" and "The Martian", but was frequently interrupted by various positive energy and emotional scenes. This way of trying to please all kinds of audiences backfired, and everyone did not see their expected effect.

---

Various exhibitions that have been suspended for many years have restarted this year. Last week, I went to Yongkang, Zhejiang to participate in the first Hilly and Mountainous Agricultural Machinery Exhibition. I have a few intuitive feelings:

- The agricultural industrial chain is long, there are many types of crops, the terrain is changeable, and the demand for agricultural machinery is diverse. Agricultural machinery factories need to develop and adapt related products in a targeted manner. Agricultural machinery belongs to the mechanical industry. Domestic agricultural machinery manufacturers have reached a very high level in R&D and product completeness, indicating that domestic machinery has made great strides forward. However, the diversity of demand has also led to scattered manufacturers, making it difficult to achieve large scale, leading to serious low-end competition. In the future, electrification, unmanned operation, and corporate mergers are industry development trends.
- There are very few foreign brands. Leading agricultural machinery enterprises such as John Deere and Case did not participate at all. Japanese Yanmar, which participated in the exhibition, was represented by domestic agents. The reason is unknown.

---

The growth flywheel refers to a mechanism in which an enterprise or industry's operating model and business growth promote each other and form a positive feedback loop. Through initial low investment and high return, rapid business growth is continuously promoted. As the business scale expands, enterprises can gradually optimize and improve efficiency, while continuously introducing new businesses and new users, thereby continuously expanding the scale and speed of growth.

The core idea of the growth flywheel is to take user experience as the main driving force for business development, and improve user satisfaction, word-of-mouth, and new user acquisition by optimizing user experience.
