---
title: "Spring"
description: "2023 is a key year for China's economic development. The government, enterprises, and individuals will make more efforts to promote economic development. Among the national economic development priorities, enterprises are the core force. Enterprises need to play a role in expanding domestic demand, promoting the digital transformation of old industries, accelerating the development of new energy on new tracks, and preventing real estate, financial risks, and local debt risks. At the same time, in order to encourage enterprise development, the government has promulgated a comprehensive registration system, strict supervision, and made delisting companies easier, and required enterprises to pay more attention to value creation to provide stronger economic momentum."
category: "life"
tags:
  - "roam"
pubDate: 2023-03-03
heroImage: "https://cos.zbz.ai/images/202309280820274.avif"
heroImageAlt: "RealRip-"
heroImageWidth: 1960
heroImageHeight: 1102
authors:
  - default
draft: false
featured: false
locale: "en"
---

Before the Spring Festival, the COVID-19 prevention and control policy suddenly shifted. After the national transient positive wave passed, with the disappearance of the epidemic prevention policy, the number of COVID-19 infected people was also completely "cleared". After three years of fighting the epidemic, people are extremely exhausted and no longer willing to mention COVID-19. It ended completely after announcing a major victory. People will shift all their energy to making money. Before the New Year, I saw a sentence in the circle of friends: people with nothing to do are waiting for the New Year, and people with things to do are thinking about making money.

At the 2023 Central Economic Work Conference, 3 development priorities for economic development were proposed:

1. Expand domestic demand: Three years of the epidemic have made ordinary people extremely conservative and afraid to consume, but consumption is an important means to deal with the financial crisis. It is necessary to restore and expand consumption, and increase consumption in the fields of housing, new energy vehicles, elderly care services, education and medical care.
2. Digital transformation of old industries, traditional manufacturing, and agriculture; accelerate the development of new energy, artificial intelligence, bio-manufacturing, green and low-carbon, and quantum computing on new tracks.
3. State-owned enterprises, private enterprises, and foreign enterprises are all wanted, preventing real estate, financial risks, and local debt risks.

After holding back for three years due to the epidemic, plus the previous trade war with US imperialism, the economy has probably been lost for 5-6 years. Now the government, enterprises, and individuals are all gearing up for a big fight. Even during the Spring Festival, I saw provincial and municipal leaders doing research at the grassroots level. After the Spring Festival, many places shouted the slogan that the start of the year is the start of the run, and the start is a sprint. However, after running for a while after the year, I didn't find much improvement in the economy. To really develop the economy, we not only need the government to ignite the engine through large-scale investment, but also need residents' consumption to keep the machine running for a long time. More importantly, enterprises need to create more value and provide surging power for the economy. Among all links, enterprises are the most important. Local governments need more enterprises to provide taxes. We saw some places standing up and applauding entrepreneurs at the two sessions. Some provincial party committee top leaders did not go to comfort the poor people during the Spring Festival, but went to comfort entrepreneurs. Just like Meng Dehai, the secretary of the Qinghua District Party Committee in "The Knockout", although he knew that Gao Qiqiang was a gangster, he still secretly and openly helped him grab the Mang Village project. Meng Dehai knew that only Gao Qiqiang, a capable person who seeks profit, could help him complete the transformation and upgrading of Qinghua District. Whether Mrs. Niu becomes Little Sweetie again or the fellow villager doesn't leave, the political and business environment will be much better for enterprises in the coming period.

In addition to showing sincerity, the body is also honest. The comprehensive registration system is here. In the future, the Shanghai Stock Exchange, Shenzhen Stock Exchange, Beijing Stock Exchange and the National Equities Exchange and Quotations will all implement the registration system. After the implementation of the comprehensive registration system, the primary task of the China Securities Regulatory Commission has become supervision, not issuance and review. There will be more and more delisted companies. It is easy for companies to list, and it is easier to delist. Investors will pay more attention to the company's ability to make money, rather than the ability to tell stories.

**Related Links**

[Key Points of the 2024 Central Economic Work Conference](https://realrip.com/en/posts/20231228-spring-2024/)

[Key Points of the 2022 Central Economic Conference](https://realrip.com/en/posts/20221218-red-bull/)

[Key Points of the 2023 Central Economic Work Conference](https://realrip.com/en/posts/20230303-spring-2023/)

[Key Points of the 2022 Central Economic Conference](https://realrip.com/en/posts/20221218-red-bull/)

[Key Points of the 2021 Central Economic Work Conference](https://realrip.com/en/posts/20201213-2021-do-what/)
