---
title: "2024 Money Making"
description: "The greatest love for life is to seriously make money."
category: "invest"
tags:
  - "strategy"
pubDate: 2024-01-01
authors:
  - default
heroImage: "https://cos.zbz.ai/images/202401012242977.avif"
heroImageAlt: "RealRip- The greatest love for life is to seriously make money."
heroImageWidth: 1960
heroImageHeight: 1102
draft: false
featured: false
locale: en
---

In previous years, I would go to Jingshan Temple for the New Year's Eve celebration, but this year I decided not to go. The crowds at Jingshan Temple have grown so much that it's no longer the peaceful retreat it once was. Instead, I woke up early and went to Faxixi Temple to pray for a smooth year ahead. After all, every temple worships the same Buddha; the size of the temple doesn't matter, sincerity does. Moreover, Faxixi Temple is not just any ordinary place in the Buddhist world.

Built during the Later Jin dynasty, Faxixi Temple was once the foremost teaching temple due to its rich collection of scriptures. The current buildings were constructed in 1986, and it has become quite popular among young people. The temple’s name is auspicious, and its architecture is authentically ancient, with halls built along the mountain slope, creating a picturesque scene. Even on regular days, it's full of young people, and during holidays, the police have to limit the flow of visitors. I arrived early; the temple gates open at 6 AM, and by 6:30, people were already leaving after their visit.

I prefer New Year's Day over the Spring Festival because it marks the start of a new year for the entire world. On this day, people around the globe engage in some form of ritual, even if it's just a silent reflection, to bid farewell to the past and envision the future. Some people may mock themselves for setting resolutions, knowing they won't last, but even a few days of effort is better than none. For instance, reading a few more pages or running an extra 10 kilometers. Regardless of how short-lived the effort, it yields some benefit.

In addition to setting resolutions, New Year's Day is also a time to bid farewell to the past year. 2023 was not a smooth year for me. My New Year's resolutions went unfulfilled, and there were few surprises. While the challenges of 2023 can't be entirely blamed on the pandemic, they can be attributed to the difficult global environment—geopolitical conflicts, great power struggles, natural disasters—it was a tough year. The stresses of pre-prepared foods, real estate, and the stock market weighed heavily. But, really, the main issue was that I didn't make enough money in 2023. A friend once said, "At our age, we don't drink much, eat much, or chase after women like we used to. The only pleasure left is making money." And it's true—making money triggers more dopamine than eating candy.

So, in 2024, let's continue focusing on making money. Whatever brings in money, do that; whatever brings in money quickly, do that. Don't lose sight of the goal—keep making money.

Whether it's cryptocurrencies, e-commerce live streaming, the stock market, or build projects—if they make money, keep doing them. After all, we're not drinking, eating, or chasing after women much anymore, and we sleep less, too. So, with all that extra time, why not keep making money?

As I wandered through the temple, my mind kept drifting back to making money. Walking past the Hall of Ksitigarbha and nearing the temple gate, I saw a verse that read, "You think you're making money, but actually, money is making you." It didn't rhyme, and it didn't make much sense. I chose to ignore it.
