---
title: "Recent Movies I've Watched"
description: "There aren't many interesting movies in the Spring Festival blockbusters"
category: "life"
tags:
  - "media"
pubDate: 2024-03-17
authors:
  - default
heroImage: "https://cos.zbz.ai/images/202403171652742.avif"
heroImageAlt: "ZBZ- Recent Movies I've Watched"
heroImageWidth: 1960
heroImageHeight: 1102
draft: false
featured: false
locale: en
---

There aren't many interesting movies in the Spring Festival blockbusters anymore, but some of the regularly released films are worth watching. Recently, I watched three movies: "Spring in Seoul," "The Three Evils of Zhou Chu," and "Dune: Part Two."

## Spring in Seoul

I heard about this movie while listening to the _Left and Right_ podcast. It is based on the 1979 winter incident in South Korea, where President Park Chung-hee was assassinated, and the new military faction took power. The film portrays the Seoul Security Commander as a very upright character, while Chun Doo-hwan is depicted as someone who seizes power. History is often dressed up like a little girl, and directors can shape it however they like. Let's call this movie "The Dramatization of Chun Doo-hwan's Rise to Power." The historical value and human insight in this film are almost nonexistent. It can only be considered a mediocre Korean film, much worse than the previous "The Man Standing Next."

## The Three Evils of Zhou Chu

Ethan Ruan doesn’t have many films. I previously watched "Monga," and this time I watched "The Three Evils of Zhou Chu." The first two stories were quite ordinary, but the climax comes at the end when the cult is eradicated. Although it’s easy to guess that the doctor is the wanted criminal, the following twists and turns make it a very good anti-fraud propaganda film.

## Dune: Part Two

The plot of "Dune" itself is quite conventional, with its economic and social models resembling those in strategy games like "Empire." The movie’s strength lies in its special effects. I highly recommend watching it in IMAX. The first two films primarily focus on desert mining, while the third film involves conquering other families that have yet to submit. The director might use more visual effects to depict various unique planetary environments. In the second part, all the Sardaukar were wiped out, and in the next installment, a new antagonist might be introduced, or Paul might become the antagonist, with Chani continuing to lead the Fremen in battle against him.
