---
title: "The Women in 'Shōgun' Are Worth Watching"
description: "''Shōgun'' is a rare drama in recent years that reflects the essence"
category: "life"
tags:
  - "media"
  - "reflect"
pubDate: 2024-11-01
authors:
  - default
heroImage: "https://cos.zbz.ai/images/202411011750616.avif"
heroImageAlt: "ZBZ-The Women in 'Shōgun' Are Worth Watching"
heroImageWidth: 2400
heroImageHeight: 1350
draft: false
featured: false
locale: en
---

While traveling on a high-speed train, I finished watching the popular American TV series 'Shōgun,' which gained considerable attention in the first half of this year. The show is set against the backdrop of Japan's Sengoku period in the 16th century, mixing the political and military struggles of the two major colonial empires, Britain and Portugal. With numerous characters and diverse scenarios, it earns a three-star recommendation. The reason it doesn’t get four stars is the relatively shallow portrayal of power struggles, falling short of the intricate political schemes typical of East Asian countries. The director should study more Korean political dramas before creating a second season. Perhaps the director intentionally aimed for a lighter viewing experience, but if so, they shouldn’t underestimate the audience’s intelligence—we can understand complex narratives.

I am not deeply familiar with Japanese culture, so I cannot judge if the cultural settings in the show accurately reflect the customs and traditions of Japan at that time. However, it is evident that the director has put effort into recreating historical details. For example, in the scene where Lady Toda Mariko commits seppuku, the detail of binding her legs with a white cloth reflects the ritual of female seppuku in Japan. This shows the director’s attention to detail, possibly based on descriptions in the original work.

The character performances are commendable. All the Japanese actors delivered professional performances, and the Western actors portraying the Portuguese were also excellent. The sole exception is the male lead, John Blackthorne (Cosmo Jarvis), whose performance was outright disappointing. His acting lacked intensity, his expressions were exaggerated, and his movements were stiff. If he remains the male lead in the second season, the series might face failure. Words cannot adequately describe how poor his performance was—it is on par with, or even worse than, certain subpar performances in other shows.

Setting aside the plot and acting, the depiction of samurai values such as loyalty and bravery was well-executed. The series captures the essence and dilemmas of Bushido, the way of the samurai, through the intrigues and power struggles of various factions. The portrayal of women, such as Lady Toda Mariko, Lady Ochiba, and others, vividly reflects the mental and emotional struggles of Japanese women during the Shogunate era. These women embody qualities such as patience, loyalty, and a readiness to die for their lords or husbands.

This series is a rare exploration of Japanese culture and intellectual dilemmas. It is suitable for casual viewing, such as during intermittent 5G signals on a high-speed train. However, it may not be worth dedicating an entire segment of time, as the director’s and author’s understanding of Japanese culture and the Oriental psyche is relatively superficial.
